did you hear that?
they've shut down the main reactor.
we'll be destroyed for sure.
there'll be no escape for the princess this time.
i should have known better than to trust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister.
what are you waiting for?
artoo-detoo, where are you?
where have you been?
they're heading in this direction.
what are we going to do?
we'll be sent to the spice mines of kessel or smashed into who knows what!
wait a minute, where are you going?
the death star plans are not in the main computer.
where are those transmissions you intercepted?
we intercepted no transmissions.
this is a consular ship.
were on a diplomatic mission.
if this is a consular ship.
where is the ambassador?
commander, tear this ship apart until you've found those plans and bring me the ambassador.
i want her alive!
she'll be all right.
inform lord vader we have a prisoner.
hey, you're not permitted in there.
you'll be deactivated for sure.
don't call me a mindless philosopher, you overweight glob of grease!
now come out before somebody sees you.
what are you talking about?
i'm not getting in there!
i'm going to regret this.
there goes another one.
there are no life forms.
it must have been short-circuited.
that's funny, the damage doesn't look as bad from out here.
are you sure this things safe?
i've told you kids to slow down!
did i hear a young noise blast through here?
it was just wormie on another rampage.
shape it up you guys!
i didn't know you were back!
when did you get in?
i wanted to surprise you, hot shot.
i thought you'd be here.
certainly didn't expect you to be out working.
the academy didn't change you much.
but you're back so soon?
hey, what happened, didn't you get your commission?
of course i got it.
signed aboard the rand ecliptic last week.
first mate biggs darklighter at your service.
i just came back to say goodbye to all you unfortunate landlocked simpletons.
there's a battle going on!
right here in our system.
that's no battle, hot shot.
they're just sitting there!
probably a freighter-tanker refueling.
but there was a lot of firing earlier.
hey, easy with those.
don't worry about it, wormie.
i keep telling you, the rebellion is a long way from here.
i doubt if the empire would even fight to keep this system.
believe me luke, this planet is a big hunk of nothing.
lord vader, i should have known.
only you could be so bold.
the imperial senate will not sit stillfor this, when they hear you've attacked a diplomatic.
don't play games with me, your highness.
you weren't on any mercy mission this time.
you passed directly through a restricted system.
several transmissions were beamed to this ship by rebel spies.
i want to know what happened to the plans they sent you.
i don't know what you're talking about.
i'm a member of the imperial senate on a diplomatic mission to alderaan.
you're a part of the rebel alliance.
holding her is dangerous.
if word of this gets out, it could generate sympathy for the rebellion in the senate.
i have traced the rebel spies to her.
now she is my only link to find their secret base!
leave that to me.
send a distress signal and then inform the senate that all aboard were killed!
lord vader, the battle station plans are not aboard this ship!
and no transmissions were made.
an escape pod was jettisoned during the fighting, but no life forms were aboard.
she must have hidden the plans in the escape pod.
send a detachment down to retrieve them.
see to it personally, commander.
there'll be no one to stop us this time.
how did i get into this mess?
i really don't know how.
we seem to be made to suffer.
it's our lot in life.
i've got to rest before i fall apart.
my joints are almost frozen.
what a desolate place this is.
where are you going?
well, i'm not going that way.
it's much too rocky.
this way is much easier.
what makes you think there are settlements over there?
don't get technical with me.
what are you talking about?
i've had just about enough of you!
you'll be malfunctioning within a day, you nearsighted scrap pile!
and don't let me catch you following me begging for help, because you won't get it.
i'm not going that way.
that malfunctioning little twerp.
this is all his fault!
he tricked me into going this way, but he'll do no better.
so i cut off my power, shut down the afterburners and came in low on deak's trail.
i was so close i thought i was going to fry my instruments.
as it was i busted up the skyhopper pretty bad.
uncle owen was pretty upset.
he grounded me for the rest of the season.
you should have been there.
you ought to take it a little easy luke.
you may be the hottest bushpilot this side of mos eisley, but those little skyhoppers are dangerous.
keep it up, and one day, whammo, you're going to be nothing more than a dark spot on the down side of a canyon wall.
now that you've been around those giant starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle.
you've gotten soft in the city.
i've missed you kid.
well, things haven't been the same since you left, biggs.
luke, i didn't come back just to say goodbye.
i shouldn't tell you this, but you're the only one i can trust.
and if i don't come back, i want somebody to know.
what are you talking about?
i made some friends at the academy.
when our frigate goes to one of the central systems, we're going to jump ship and join the alliance.
quiet down will ya!
you got a mouth bigger than a meteor crater!
listen how quiet i am.
you can barely hear me.
my friend has a friend on bestine who might help us make contact.
around forever trying to find them.
i know it's a long shot, but if i don't find them i'll do what i can on my own.
it's what we always talked about.
luke, i'm not going to wait for the empire to draft me into service.
the rebellion is spreading and i want to be on the right side - the side i believe in.
and i'm stuck here.
i thought you were going to the academy next term.
you'll get your chance to get off this rock.
i had to cancel my application.
there has been a lot of unrest among the sand people since you left.
they've even raided the outskirts of anchorhead.
your uncle could hold off a whole colony of sand people with one blaster.
i know, but he's got enough vaporators going to make the place pay off.
he needs me for just one more season.
i can't leave him now.
i feel for you, luke, you're going to have to learn what seems to be important or what really is important.
what good is all your uncle's work if it's taken over by the empire?
you know they're starting to nationalize commerce in the central systems.
it won't be long before your uncle is merely a tenant, slaving for the greater glory of the empire.
it couldn't happen here.
you said it yourself.
the empire won't bother with this rock.
i wish i was going.
are you going to be around long?
no, i'm leaving in the morning.
then i guess i won't see you.
i'll keep a lookout.
well, i'll be at the academy next season.
after that who knows.
i won't be drafted into the imperial starfleet that's for sure.
take care of yourself, you'll always be the best friend i've got.
someone was in the pod.
the tracks go off in this direction.
look, sir - droids.
do you think they'll melt us down?
will this never end?
luke, tell owen that if he gets a translator to be sure it speaks bocce.
it looks like we don't have much of a choice but i'll remind him.
i have no need for a protocol droid.
sir - not in an environment such as this - that's why i've also been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that.
what i really need is a droid that understands the binary languages of moisture vaporators.
sir - my first job was programming binary load lifters.
very similar to your vaporators.
do you speak bocce?
of course i can, sir.
it's like a second language for me.
i'm as fluent in bocce.
all right; shut up!
i'll take this one.
luke, take these two over to the garage, will you?
i want you to have both of them cleaned up before dinner.
but i was going into toshi station to pick up some power converters.
you can waste time with your friends when your chores are done.
now, come on, get to it!
all right, come on!
and the red one, come on.
well, come on, red, let's go.
this r2 unit has a bad motivator.
hey, what're you trying to push on us?
excuse me, sir, but that r2 unit is in prime condition.
what about that one?
what about that blue one?
we'll take that one.
yeah, take it away.
uh, i'm quite sure you'll be very pleased with that one, sir.
he really is in first-class condition.
i've worked with him before.
now, don't forget this!
why i should stick my neck out for you is quite beyond my capacity!
this oil bath is going to feel so good.
i've got such a bad case of dust contamination, i can barely move!
it just isn't fair.
oh, biggs is right.
i'm never gonna get out of here!
is there anything i might do to help?
well, not unless you can alter time, speed up the harvest, or teleport me off this rock!
i don't think so, sir.
i'm only a droid and not very knowledgeable about such things.
not on this planet, anyways.
as a matter of fact, i'm not even sure which planet i'm on.
well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that it's farthest from.
uh, you can call me luke.
i see, sir luke.
and i am see-threepio, human-cyborg relations, and this is my counterpart, artoo-detoo.
you got a lot of carbon scoring here.
it looks like you boys have seen a lot of action.
with all we've been through, sometimes i'm amazed we're in as good condition as we are, what with the rebellion and all.
you know of the rebellion against the empire?
that's how we came to be in your service, if you take my meaning, sir.
have you been in many battles?
actually, there's not much to tell.
i'm not much more than an interpreter, and not very good at telling stories.
well, not at making them interesting, anyways.
well, my little friend, you've got something jammed in here real good.
were you on a starcruiser or.
help me, obi-wan kenobi.
he asked you a question.
help me, obi-wan kenobi.
you're my only hope.
help me, obi-wan kenobi.
you're my only hope.
oh, he says it's nothing, sir.
pay it no mind.
i'm afraid i'm not quite sure, sir.
help me, obi-wan kenobi.
i think she was a passenger on our last voyage.
a person of some importance, sir - i believe.
our captain was attached to.
is there more to this recording?
you're going to get us in trouble.
it's all right, you can trust him.
he's our new master.
he says he's the property of obi-wan kenobi, a resident of these parts.
and it's a private message for him.
quite frankly, sir, i don't know what he's talking about.
our last master was captain antilles, but with what we've been through, this little r2 unit has become a bit eccentric.
i wonder if he means old ben kenobi?
i beg your pardon, sir, but do you know what he's talking about?
well, i don't know anyone named obi-wan, but old ben lives out beyond the dune sea.
he's kind of a strange old hermit.
i wonder who she is.
it sounds like she's in trouble.
i'd better play back the whole thing.
he says the restraining bolt has short circuited his recording system.
he suggests that if you remove the bolt, he might be able to play back the entire recording.
oh, yeah, well, i guess you're too small to run away on me if i take this off!
well, wait a minute.
play back the entire message.
the one you're carrying inside your rusty innards!
all right, i'll be right there, aunt beru.
i'm sorry, sir, but he appears to have picked up a slight flutter.
well, see what you can do with him.
i'll be right back.
just you reconsider playing that message for him.
no, i don't think he likes you at all.
no, i don't like you either.
you know, i think that r2 unit we bought might have been stolen.
what makes you think that?
well, i stumbled across a recording while i was cleaning him.
he says he belongs to someone called obi-wan kenobi.
i thought he might have meant ben.
do you know what he's talking about?
well, i wonder if he's related to ben.
that old man's just a crazy wizard.
tomorrow i want you to take that r2 unit into anchorhead and have its memory flushed.
that'll be the end of it.
it belongs to us now.
but what if this obi-wan comes looking for him?
he won't, i don't think he exists any more.
he died about the same time as your father.
he knew my father?
i told you to forget it.
your only concern is to prepare the new droids for tomorrow.
in the morning i want them on the south ridge working out those condensers.
i think those new droids are going to work out fine.
in fact, i, uh, was also thinking about our agreement about my staying on another season.
and if these new droids do work out, i want to transmit my application to the academy this year.
you mean the next semester before harvest?
sure, there're more than enough droids.
harvest is when i need you the most.
only one more season.
this year we'll make enough on the harvest so i'll be able to hire some more hands.
and then you can go to the academy next year.
you must understand i need you here, luke.
but it's a whole 'nother year.
look, it's only one more season.
yeah, that's what you said last year when biggs and tank left.
where are you going?
it looks like i'm going nowhere.
i have to finish cleaning those droids.
owen, he can't stay here forever.
most of his friends have gone.
it means so much to him.
i'll make it up to him next year.
luke's just not a farmer, owen.
he has too much of his father in him.
that's what i'm afraid of.
what are you doing hiding there?
it wasn't my fault, sir.
please don't deactivate me.
i told him not to go, but he's faulty, malfunctioning; kept babbling on about his mission.
that r2 unit has always been a problem.
these astro-droids are getting quite out of hand.
even i can't understand their logic at times.
how could i be so stupid?
he's nowhere in sight.
pardon me, sir, but couldn't we go after him?
it's too dangerous with all the sand people around.
we'll have to wait until morning.
luke, i'm shutting the power down for the night.
all right, i'll be there in a few minutes.
boy, am i gonna get it.
you know that little droid is going to cause me a lot of trouble.
oh, he excels at that, sir.
where could he be loafing now!
have you seen luke this morning?
he said he had some things to do before he started today, so he left early.
did he take those two new droids with him?
well, he'd better have those units in the south range repaired bemidday or there'll be hell to pay!
old ben kenobi lives out in this direction somewhere, but i don't see how that r2 unit could have come this far.
we must have missed him.
uncle owen isn't going to take this very well.
sir, would it help if you told him it was my fault.
he'd probably only deactivate you for a day or so.
well, on the other hand if you hadn't removed his restraining bolt.
wait, there's something dead ahead on the scanner.
it looks like our droid.
hey, whoa, just where do you think you're going?
master luke here is your rightful owner.
we'll have no more of this obi-wan kenobi jibberish.
and don't talk to me of your mission, either.
you're fortunate he doesn't blast you into a million pieces right here.
i only hope we can get back before uncle owen really blows up.
if you don't mind my saying so, sir, i think you should deactivate the little fugitive until you've gotten him back to your workshop.
no, he's not going to try anything.
what's wrong with him now?
sir, he says there are several creatures approaching from the southeast.
come on, let's have a look.
there are two banthas down there but i don't see any.
wait a second, they're sand people all right.
i can see one of them now.
come here my little friend.
don't worry, he'll be all right.
rest easy, son, you've had a busy day.
you're fortunate you're still in one piece.
boy, am i glad to see you!
the jundland wastes are not to be traveled lightly.
tell me, young luke, what brings you out this far?
oh, this little droid!
i think he's searching for his former master.
i've never seen such devotion in a droid before.
there seems tobe no stopping him.
he claims to be the property of an obi-wan kenobi.
is he a relative of yours?
do you know who he's talking about?
now thats a name i haven't heard in a long time.
i think my uncle knew him.
he said he was dead.
oh, he's not dead, no.
well of course, of course i know him.
i haven't gone by the name obi-wan since oh, before you were born.
then the droid does belong to you.
don't seem to remember ever owning a droid.
i think we better get indoors.
the sand people are easily startled but they will soon be back and in greater numbers.
i must have taken a bad step.
we've got to get out of here before the sand people return.
i don't think i can make it.
you go on, master luke.
there's no sense in you risking yourself on my account.
what kind of talk is that?
they're on the move.
no, my father didn't fight in the wars.
he was a navigator on a spice freighter.
that's what your uncle told you.
he didn't hold with your father's ideals.
thought he should have stayed here and not gotten involved.
you fought in the clone wars?
yes, i was once a jedi knight the same as your father.
i wish i'd known him.
he was the best star-pilot in the galaxy, and a cunning warrior.
i understand you've become quite a good pilot yourself.
and he was a good friend.
i have something here for you.
your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but your uncle wouldn't allow it.
he feared you might follow old obi-wan on some damned-fool idealistic crusade like your father did.
sir, if you'll not be needing me, i'll close down for awhile.
this is the weapon of a jedi knight.
not as clumsy or as random as a blaster.
an elegant weapon for a morecivilized time.
for over a thousand generations the jedi knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the old republic.
before the dark times, before the empire.
how did my father die?
a young jedi named darth vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped the empire hunt down and destroy the jedi knights.
he betrayed and murdered your father.
now the jedi are all but extinct.
vader was seduced by the dark side of the force.
well, the force is what gives the jedi his power.
it's an energy field created by all living things.
it surrounds us and penetrates us.
it binds the galaxy together.
now, let's see if we can't figure out what you are, my little friend.
and where you come from.
i saw part of the message he was.
i seem to have found it.
general kenobi, years ago you served my father in the clone wars.
now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the empire.
i regret that i am unable to present my father's request to you in person, but my ship has fallen under attack and i'm afraid my mission to bring you to alderaan has failed.
i have placed information vital to the survival of the rebellion into the memory systems of this r2 unit.
my father will know how to retrieve it.
you must see this droid safely delivered to him on alderaan.
this is our most desperate hour.
help me, obi-wan kenobi, you're my only hope.
you must learn the ways of the force if you're to come with me to alderaan.
i'm not going to alderaan.
i've got to go home.
it's late, i'm in for it as it is.
i need your help, luke.
i'm getting too old for this sort of thing.
she needs your help.
i can't get involved!
i've got work to do!
it's not that i like the empire.
but there's nothing i can do about it right now.
it's such a long way from here.
that's your uncle talking.
oh, god, my uncle.
how am i ever going to explain this?
learn about the force, luke.
look, i can take you as far as anchorhead.
you can get a transport there to mos eisley or wherever you're going.
you must do what you feel is right, of course.
until this battle station is fully operational we are vulnerable.
the rebel alliance is too well equipped.
they're more dangerous than you realize.
dangerous to your starfleet, commander; not to this battle station!
the rebellion will continue to gain support in the imperial senate as long as.
the imperial senate will no longer be of any concern to us.
i've just received word that the emperor has dissolved the council permanently.
the last remnants of the old republic have been swept away.
how will the emperor maintain control without the bureaucracy?
the regional governors now have direct control over territories.
fear will keep the local systems in line.
fear of this battle station.
and what of the rebellion?
if the rebels have obtained a complete technical readout of this station, it is possible, however unlikely, that they might find a weakness and exploit it.
the plans you refer to will soon be back in our hands.
any attack made by the rebels against this station would be a useless gesture, no matter what technical data they've obtained.
this station is now the ultimate power in the universe.
i suggest we use it!
don't be too proud of this technological terror you've constructed.
the ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the force.
don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's ways, lord vader.
your sad devotion to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure up the stolen data tapes, or given you clairvoyance enough to find the rebel's hidden fort.
i find your lack of faith disturbing.
this bickering is pointless.
lord vader will provide us with the location of the rebel fortress by the time this station is operational.
we will then crush the rebellion with one swift stroke.
it looks like sand people did this, all right.
look, here are gaffi sticks, bantha tracks.
i never heard of them hitting anything this big before.
but we are meant to think they did.
these tracks are side by side.
sand people always ride single file to hide there numbers.
these are the same jawas that sold us artoo and threepio.
and these blast points, too accurate for sand people.
only imperial stormtroopers are so precise.
why would imperial troops want to slaughter jawas?
if they traced the robots here, they may have learned who they sold them to.
and that would lead them back home!
and, now your highness, we will discuss the location of your hidden rebel base.
there's nothing you could have done, luke, had you been there.
you'd have been killed, too, and the droids would now be in the hands of the empire.
i want to come with you to alderaan.
there's nothing here for me now.
i want to learn the ways of the force and become a jedi like my father.
you will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy.
we must be cautious.
how long have you had these droids?
about three or four seasons.
they're for sale if you want them.
let me see your identification.
you don't need to see his identification.
we don't need to see his identification.
these are not the droids we're looking for.
he can go about his business.
you can go about your business.
i can't abide these jawas.
go on, go on.
i can't understand how we got by those troopers.
i thought we were dead.
the force can have a strong influence on the weak-minded.
you will find it a powerful ally.
do you really think we're going to find a pilot here that'll take us to alderaan?
well, most of the best freighter pilots can be found here.
only watch your step.
this place can be a little rough.
i'm ready for anything.
we don't serve their kind here!
they'll have to wait outside.
we don't want them here.
listen, why don't you wait out by the speeder.
we don't want any trouble.
i heartily agree with you sir.
he doesn't like you.
i don't like you either
you just watch yourself.
i have the death sentence on twelve systems.
i'll be careful than.
this little one isn't worth the effort.
come let me buy you something.
he's first-mate on a ship that might suit our needs.
i don't like the look of this.
i'm captain of the millennium falcon.
chewie here tells me you're looking for passage to the alderaan system.
if it's a fast ship.
you've never heard of the millennium falcon?
it's the ship that made the kessel run in less than twelve parsecs!
i've outrun imperial starships, not the local bulk-cruisers, mind you.
i'm talking about the big corellian ships now.
she's fast enough for you, old man.
myself, the boy, two droids, and no questions asked.
some kind of local trouble?
let's just say we'd like to avoid any imperial entanglements.
well, that's the real trick, isn't it?
and it's going to cost you something extra.
ten thousand in advance.
we could almost buy our own ship for that!
but who's going to fly it, kid!
you bet i could.
i'm not such a bad pilot myself!
we don't have to sit here and listen.
we haven't that much with us.
but we could pay you two thousand now, plus fifteen when we reach alderaan.
you guys got yourself a ship.
we'll leave as soon as you're ready.
looks like somebody's beginning to take an interest in your handiwork.
all right, we'll check it out.
those guys must really be desperate.
this could really save my neck.
get back to the ship and get her ready.
you'll have to sell your speeder.
i'm never coming back to this planet again.
as a matter of fact, i was just going to see your boss.
tell jabba that i've got his money.
you should have paid him when you had the chance.
jabba's put a price on your head, so large that every bounty hunter in the galaxy will be looking for you.
i'm lucky i found you first.
yeah, but this time i got the money.
if you give it to me, i might forget i found you.
i don't have it with me.
jabba's through with you.
he has no time for smugglers who drop their shipments at the first sign of an imperial cruiser.
even i get boarded sometimes.
do you think i had a choice?
you can tell that to jabba.
he may only take your ship.
over my dead body.
that's the idea i've been looking forward to killing you for a long time.
yes, i'll bet you have.
sorry about the mess.
her resistance to the mind probe is considerable.
it will be some time before we can extract any information from her.
the final check-out is complete.
all systems are operational.
what course shall we set?
perhaps she would respond to an alternative form of persuasion.
what do you mean?
i think it is time we demonstrate the full power of this station.
set your course for princess leia's home planet of alderaan.
lock the door, artoo.
all right, check that side of the street.
move on to the next door.
i would much rather have gone with master luke than stay here with you.
i don't know what all this trouble is about, but i'm sure it must be your fault.
you watch your language!
he says it's the best he can do.
since the xp-38 came out, they
it will be enough.
if the ship's as fast as he's boasting, we ought to do well.
come on out, solo!
i've been waiting for you, jabba.
i expected you would be.
i'm not the type to run.
han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me.
why haven't you paid me?
and why did you have to fry poor greedo like that.
after all we've been through together.
you sent greedo to blast me.
han, why you're the best smuggler in the business.
you're too valuable to fry.
he was only relaying my concern at your delays.
he wasn't going to blast you.
i think he thought he was.
next time don't send one of those twerps.
if you've got something to say to me, come see me yourself.
if only you hadn't had to dump that shipment of spice.
you understand i just can't make an exception.
where would i be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped their shipment at the first sign of an imperial starship?
it's not good business.
you know, even i get boarded sometimes, jabba.
i had no choice, but i've gota charter now and i can pay you back, plus a little extra.
i just need some more time.
put your blasters away.
han, my boy, i'm only doing this because you're the best and i need you.
so, for an extra, say.
twenty percent i'll give you a little more time.
but this is it.
if you disappoint me again, i'll put a price on your head so large you won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your short life.
jabba, i'll pay you because it's my pleasure.
what a piece of junk.
she'll make point five beyond the speed of light.
she may not look like much, but she's got it where it counts, kid.
i've added some special modifications myself.
we're a little rushed, so if you'll hurry aboard we'll get out of here.
chewie, get us out of here!
i'd forgotten how much i hate space travel.
it looks like an imperial cruiser.
our passengers must be hotter than i thought.
try and hold them off.
angle the deflector shield while i make the calculations for the jump to light speed.
there are two more coming in; they're going to try to cut us off.
why don't you outrun them?
i thought you said this thing was fast.
watch your mouth, kid, or you're going to find yourself floating home.
we'll be safe enough once we make the jump to hyperspace.
besides, i know a few maneuvers.
here's where the fun begins!
how long before you can make the jump to light speed?
it'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the navi-computer.
at the rate they're gaining.
traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy!
without precise calculations we could fly right through a star or bounce too close to a supernova and that'd end your trip real quick, wouldn't it?
we're losing our deflector shield.
go strap yourself in, i'm going to make the jump to light speed.
we've entered the alderaan system.
governor tarkin, i should have expected to find you holding vader's leash.
i recognized your foul stench when i was brought on board.
charming to the last.
you don't know how hard i found it signing the order to terminate your life!
to take the responsibility yourself!
princess leia, before your execution i would like you to be my guest at a ceremony that will make this battle station operational.
no star system will dare oppose the emperor now.
the more you tighten your grip, tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers.
not after we demonstrate the power of this station.
in a way, you have determined the choice of the planet that'll be destroyed first.
since you are reluctant to provide us with the location of the rebel base, i have chosen to test this station's destructive power.
on your home planet of alderaan.
we have no weapons.
you would prefer another target?
then name the system!
i grow tired of asking this.
so it'll be the last time.
where is the rebel base?
you see lord vader, she can be reasonable.
continue with the operation.
you may fire when ready.
you're far too trusting.
dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration.
we will deal with your rebel friends soon enough.
are you all right?
i felt a great disturbance in the force.
as if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced.
i fear something terrible has happened.
you'd better get on with your exercises.
well, you can forget your troubles with those imperial slugs.
i told you i'd outrun 'em.
don't everyone thank me at once.
anyway, we should be at alderaan about oh-two-hundred hours.
now be careful, artoo.
he made a fair move.
screaming about it won't help you.
let him have it.
it's not wise to upset a wookiee.
but sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid.
that's 'cause droids don't pull people's arms out of their socket when they lose.
wookiees are known to do that.
i see your point, sir.
i suggest a new strategy, artoo.
let the wookiee win.
remember, a jedi can feel the force flowing through him.
you mean it controls your actions?
but it also obeys your commands.
hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid.
you don't believe in the force, do you?
kid, i've flown from one side of this galaxy to the other.
i've seen a lot of strange stuff, but i've never seen anything to make me believe there's one all-powerful force controlling everything.
there's no mystical energy field that controls my destiny.
it's all a lot of simple tricks and nonsense.
i suggest you try it again, luke.
this time, let go your conscious self and act on instinct.
with the blast shield down, i can't even see.
how am i supposed to fight?
your eyes can deceive you.
stretch out with your feelings.
you see, you can do it.
i call it luck.
in my experience, there's no such thing as luck.
look, going good against remotes is one thing.
going good against the living?
looks like we're coming up on alderaan.
you know, i did feel something.
i could almost see the remote.
you have taken your first step into a larger world.
our scout ships have reached dantooine.
they found the remains of a rebel base, but they estimate that it has been deserted for some time.
they are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding systems.
she lied to us!
i told you she would never consciously betray the rebellion.
stand by, chewie, here we go.
cut in the sublight engines.
aw, we've come out of hyperspace into a meteor shower.
some kind of asteroid collision.
it's not on any of the charts.
our position is correct, except.
what do you mean?
thats what i'm trying to tell you, kid.
it's been totally blown away.
the entire starfleet couldn't destroy the whole planet.
it'd take a thousand ships with more fire power than i've.
there's another ship coming in.
maybe they know what happened.
it's an imperial fighter.
it's a short range fighter.
there aren't any bases around here.
where did it come from?
it sure is leaving in a big hurry.
if they identify us, we're in big trouble.
not if i can help it.
it'd be as well to let it go.
it's too far out of range.
a fighter that size couldn't get this deep into space on its own.
then he must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something.
well, he ain't going to be around long enough to tell anyone about us.
he's heading for that small moon.
i think i can get him before he gets there.
he's almost in range.
it's a space station.
it's too big to be a space station.
i have a very bad feeling about this.
turn the ship around!
yeah, i think your right.
chewie, lock in the auxiliary power.
why are we still moving towards it?
we're caught in a tractor beam!
it's pulling us in!
but there's gotta be something you can do!
there's nothin' i can do about it, kid.
i'm in full power.
i'm going to have to shut down.
but they're not going to get me without a fight!
but there are alternatives to fighting.
we are opening the magnetic field.
close all outboard shields!
close all outboard shields!
we've captured a freighter entering the remains of the alderaan system.
it's markings match those of a ship that blasted its way out of mos eisley.
they must be trying to return the stolen plans to the princess.
she may yet be of some use to us.
unlock one-five-seven and nine.
there's no one on board, sir.
according to the log, the crew abandoned ship right after takeoff.
it must be a decoy, sir.
several of the escape pods have been jettisoned.
did you find any droids?
if there were any on board, they must also have jettisoned.
send a scanning crew on board.
i want every part of this ship checked.
a presence i haven't felt since.
get me a scanning crew in here on the double.
i want every part of this ship checked!
boy, it's lucky you had these compartments.
i use them for smuggling.
i never thought i'd be smuggling myself in them.
even if i could take off, i'd never get past the tractor beam.
leave that to me!
i knew that you were going to say that!
who's the more foolish.
the fool or the fool who follows him?
the ship's all yours.
if the scanners pick up anything, report it immediately.
all right, let's go.
hey down there, could you give us a hand with this?
why aren't you at your post?
tx-four-one-two, do you copy?
we've got a bad transmitter.
i'll see what i can do.
you know, between his howling and your blasting everything in sight, it's a wonder the whole station doesn't know we're here.
i prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.
we found the computer outlet, sir.
he should be able to interpret the entire imperial computer network.
he says he's found the main control to the power beam that's holding the ship here.
he'll try to make the precise location appear on the monitor.
the tractor beam is coupled to the main reactor in seven locations.
a power loss at one of the terminals will allow the ship to leave.
i don't think you boys can help.
i must go alone.
i've done more than i bargained for on this trip already.
i want to go with you.
stay and watch over the droids.
they must be delivered safely or other star systems will suffer the same fate as alderaan.
your destiny lies along a different path from mine.
the force will be with you.
boy you said it, chewie.
where did you dig up that old fossil?
ben is a great man.
yeah, great at getting us into trouble.
i didn't hear you give any ideas.
well, anything would be better than just hanging around waiting for them to pick us up.
who do you think.
i'm afraid i'm not quite sure, sir.
who has he found?
i'm afraid she's scheduled to be terminated.
we've got to do something.
what are you talking about?
the droid belongs to her.
she's the one in the message.
we've got to help her.
now, look, don't get any funny ideas.
the old man wants us to wait right here.
but he didn't know she was here.
look, will you just find a way back into the detention block?
i'm not going anywhere.
they're going to execute her.
look, a few minutes ago you said you didn't want to just wait here to be captured.
now all you want to do is stay.
marching into the detention area is not what i had in mind.
but they're going to kill her!
better her than me.
listen, if you were to rescue her, the reward would be.
well more wealth that you can imagine.
i don't know, i can imagine quite a bit!
but you'd better be right about this!
threepio, hand me those binders there will you?
now, i'm going to put these on you.
han, you put these on.
i think i know what he has in mind.
pardon me for asking.
what should artoo and i do if we're discovered here?
and hope they don't have blasters.
that isn't very reassuring.
i can't see a thing in this helmet.
this is not going to work.
why didn't you say so before?
i did say so before!
where are you taking this.
prisoner transfer from block one-one-three-eight.
i'll have to clear it.
he's going to pull us all apart.
we've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in.
you go get her.
i'll hold them here.
everything is under control.
had a slight weapons malfunction.
but, uh, everything's perfectly all right now.
we're all fine here, now, thank you.
we're sending a squad up.
uh, uh, negative, negative.
we had a reactor leak here now.
give us a few minutes to lock it down.
what's your operating number?
we're going to have company!
aren't you a little short for a stormtrooper?
i'm here to rescue you.
i'm here to rescue you.
i've got your r2 unit.
i'm here with ben kenobi.
ben kenobi is here!
what makes you think so?
a tremor in the force.
the last time i felt it was in the presence of my old master.
surely he must be dead by now.
don't underestimate the force.
the jedi are extinct, their fire has gone out of the universe.
you, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.
governor tarkin, we have an emergency alert in detention block aa-twenty-three.
put all sections on alert!
the force is with him.
if you're right, he must not be allowed to escape.
escape may not his plan.
i must face him alone.
can't get out that way.
looks like you managed to cut off our only escape route.
maybe you'd like it back in your cell, your highness.
we've been cut off!
are there any other ways out of the cell bay?
i said, all systems have been alerted to your presence, sir.
the main entrance seems to be the only way out; all other information on your level is restricted.
open up in there!
there isn't any other way out.
i can't hold them off forever!
this is some rescue.
when you came in here, didn't you have a plan for getting out?
he's the brains, sweetheart.
what the hell are you doing?
somebody has to save our skins.
into the garbage chute, wise guy.
get in there you big furry oaf!
i don't care what you smell!
get in there and don't worry about it.
either i'm going to kill her or i'm beginning to like her.
the garbage chute was a really wonderful idea.
what an incredible smell you've discovered!
let's get out of here!
get away from there.
will you forget it?
i already tried it.
put that thing away!
you're going to get us all killed.
look, i had everything under control until you led us down here.
you know, it's not going to take them long to figure out what happened to us.
it could be worse.
there's something alive in here!
something just moves past my leg!
did you see that?
luke, luke, grab a hold of this.
blast it, will you!
i don't know, it just let go of me and disappeared.
i've got a very bad feeling about this.
the walls are moving!
don't just stand there.
try and brace it with something.
where could he be?
they're heading for the prison level.
if you hurry, you might catch them.
all this excitement has overrun the circuits of my counterpart here.
if you don't mind, i'd like to take him down to maintenance.
get to the top!
where could he be?
threepio, will you come in?
something must have happened to them.
see if they've been captured.
one thing's for sure.
we're all going to be a lot thinner!
get on top of it!
thank goodness, they haven't found them!
where could they be?
i forgot i turned it off!
are you there, sir?
we've had some problems.
shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level, will you?
shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.
shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level.
shut them all down!
curse my metal body!
i wasn't fast enough.
it's all my fault!
threepio, we're all right!
hey, open the pressure maintenance hatch on unit number.
if we can just avoid any more female advice, we ought to be able to get out of here.
well, let's get moving!
where are you going?
come here, you big coward!
i don't know who you are, or where you came from, but from now on, you do as i tell you.
look, your worshipfulness, let's get one thing straight!
i takeorders from one person!
it's a wonder you're still alive.
will somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?
no reward is worth this.
secure this area until the alert is canceled.
give me regular reports.
do you know what's going on?
maybe it's another drill.
don't worry about it.
see-threepio, do you copy?
uh, we're in the main hangar across from the ship.
we're right above you.
you came in that thing?
you're braver that i thought.
get back to the ship!
where are you going?
he certainly has courage.
what good will it do us if he gets himself killed?
i think we took a wrong turn.
that oughta hold it for a while.
quick, we've got to get across.
find the control that extends the bridge.
oh, i think i just blasted it.
where could they be?
close the blast doors!
open the blast doors!
open the blast doors!
i've been waiting for you, obi-wan.
we meet again, at last.
the circle is now complete.
when i left you, i was but the learner; now i am the master.
only a master of evil, darth.
your powers are weak, old man.
you can't win, darth.
if you strike me down, i shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.
didn't we just leave this party?
we ran into some old friends.
is the ship all right?
seems okay, if we can get to it.
just hope the old man got the tractor beam out of commission.
come on, artoo, we're going!
luke, its too late!
i hope the old man got that tractor beam out if commission, or this is going to be a real short trip.
we're coming up on the sentry ships.
angle the deflector shields while i charge up the main guns!
i can't believe he's gone.
there wasn't anything you could have done.
come on, buddy, we're not out of this yet!
they're coming in too fast!
we've lost lateral controls.
don't worry, she'll hold together.
you hear me, baby?
there are still two more of them out there!
i think i'm melting!
this is all your fault.
they have just made the jump into hyperspace.
you're sure the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship?
i'm taking an awful risk, vader.
this had better work.
not a bad bit of rescuing, huh?
you know, sometimes i even amaze myself.
that doesn't sound too hard.
besides, they let us go.
it's the only explanation for the ease of our escape.
you call that easy?
not this ship, sister.
at least the information in artoo is still intact.
the technical readouts of that battle station.
i only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can be found.
it's not over yet!
it is for me, sister!
look, i ain't in this for your revolution, and i'm not in it for you, princess.
i expect to be well paid.
i'm in it for the money!
you needn't worry about your reward.
if money is all that you love, then that's what you'll receive!
your friend is quite a mercenary.
i wonder if he really cares about anything.
what do you think of her, han?
i'm trying not to, kid!
still, she's got a lot of spirit.
i don't know, what do you think?
do you think a princess and a guy like me.
we had feared the worst.
when we heard about alderaan, we were afraid that you were.
lost along with your father.
we don't have time for our sorrows, commander.
the battle station has surely tracked us here.
it's the only explanation for the ease of our escape.
you must use the information in this r2 unit to plan the attack.
it is our only hope.
we are approaching the planet yavin.
the rebel base is on a moon on the far side.
we are preparing to orbit the planet.
the battle station is heavily shielded and carries a firepower greater than half the star fleet.
its defenses are designed around a direct large-scale assault.
a small one-man fighter should be able to penetrate the outer defense.
pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub fighters going to be against that?
well, the empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to be any threat, or they'd have a tighter defense.
an analysis of the plans provided by princess leia has demonstrated a weakness in the battle station.
the approach will not be easy.
you are required to maneuver straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point.
the target area is only two meters wide.
it's a small thermal exhaust port, right below the main port.
the shaft leads directly to the reactor system.
a precise hit will start a chain reaction which should destroy the station.
only a precise hit will set up a chain reaction.
the shaft is ray-shielded, so you'll have to use proton torpedoes.
that's impossible, even for a computer.
i used to bullseye womp rats in my t-sixteen back home.
they're not much bigger than two meters.
and may the force be with you!
orbiting the planet at maximum velocity.
the moon with the rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.
this will be a day long remembered.
it has seen the end of kenobi and it will soon see the end of the rebellion.
all flight troops, man your stations.
all flight troops, man your stations.
you got your reward and you're just leaving then?
i got some old debts i've got to pay off with this stuff.
even if i didn't, you don't think i'd be fool enough to stick around here, do you?
why don't you come with us?
you're pretty good in a fight.
i could use you.
why don't you take a look around?
you know what's about to happen, what they're up against.
they could use a good pilot like you.
you're turning your back on them.
what good's a reward if you ain't around to use it?
besides, attacking that battle station ain'tmy idea of courage.
it's more like suicide.
well, take care of yourself, han.
guess that's what you're best at, isn't it?
may the force be with you!
what're you lookin' at?
i know what i'm doing.
i don't know, i really thought he'd change his mind.
he's got to follow his own path.
no one can choose it for him.
i only wish ben were here.
i don't believe it!
how'd you get here.
are you going out with us?
of course, i'll be up there with you!
listen, have i got some stories to tell.
have you been checked out on the incom t-sixty-five?
sir, luke is the best bushpilot in the outer rim territories.
i met your father once when i was just a boy.
he was a great pilot.
you'll do all right.
if you've got half of your father's skill, you'll do better than all right.
i've got to get aboard.
listen, you'll tell me your stories when we come back.
i told you i'd make it someday, biggs.
you did, all right.
it's going to be like old times luke.
we're a couple of shooting stars that'll never be stopped!
this r2 unit of your seems a bit beat up.
do you want a new one?
not on your life!
that little droid and i have been through a lot together.
okay, easy she goes!
hang on tight, artoo, you've got to come back.
you wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?
luke, the force will be with you.
estimated time to firing range, fifteen minutes.
all wings report in.
red ten standing by.
red seven standing by.
red three standing by.
red six standing by.
red nine standing by.
red two standing by.
red eleven standing by.
red five standing by.
lock s-foils in attack position.
we're passing through their magnetic field.
switch your deflectors on.
look at the size of that thing!
cut the chatter, red two.
accelerate to attack speed.
this is it, boys!
red leader, this is gold leader.
i copy, gold leader.
we're starting for the target shaft now.
i'm going to cut across the axis and try and draw their fire.
this is red five!
are you all right?
i got a little cooked, but i'm okay.
we count thirty rebel ships, lord vader.
but they're so small they're evading our turbo-lasers!
we'll have to destroy them ship to ship.
get the crews to their fighters.
luke, let me know when you're going in.
i'm on my way in now.
there's a lot of fire coming from the right side of that deflection tower.
squad leaders, we've picked up a new group of signals.
enemy fighters coming your way.
i don't see anything.
keep up your visual scanning.
with all this jamming, they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up.
you've picked one up.
i can't see it!
he's on me tight, i can't shake him.
i can't shake him.
hang on, biggs, i'm coming in.
several fighters have broken off from the main group.
watch your back, luke!
fighter's above you, coming in!
i'm hit, but not bad.
artoo, see what you can do with it.
hang on back there.
can you see red five?
there's a heavy fire zone on this side.
red five, where are you?
i can't shake him!
i'm on him, luke!
wedge where are you?
this is gold leader.
we're starting out attack run.
i copy, gold leader.
stay in attack formation!
the exhaust post is.
marked and locked in!
switch power to front deflection screens.
how many guns do you think, gold five?
i'd say about twenty guns.
some on the surface, some on the towers.
death star will be in range in five minutes.
switch to targeting computer.
stabilize your rear deflectors.
watch for enemy fighters.
three marks at two ten.
i'll take them myself!
gold five to red leader.
lost tiree, lost dutch.
i copy, gold five.
they came from behind.
we've analyzed their attack, sir, and there is a danger.
should i have your ship standing by?
in out moment of triumph?
i think you overestimate their chances!
rebel base, three minutes and closing.
red group, this is red leader.
rendezvous at mark six point one.
this is red two.
red three, standing by.
red leader, this is base one.
keep half your group out of range for the next run.
luke, take red two and three.
hold up here and wait for my signal.
to start your run.
we should be able to see it by now.
keep your eyes open for those fighters!
there's too much interference!
red five, can you see them from where you are?
no sign of any.
coming in point three five.
just hold them off for a few seconds.
you'd better let her loose.
i can't hold them!
it didn't go in, it just impacted on the surface.
red leader, we're right above you.
oh-five; we'll cover for you.
i just lost my starboard engine.
get set up for your attack run.
rebel base, one minute and closing.
biggs, wedge, let's close it up.
we're going in full throttle.
right with you, boss.
luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time?
it'll be just like beggar's canyon back home.
we'll stay back far enough to cover you.
my scope shows the tower, but i can't see the exhaust port!
are you sure the computer can hit it?
increase speed full throttle!
what about that tower?
you worry about those fighters!
i'll worry about the tower!
that, that stabilizer's broken loose again!
see if you can't lock it down!
i can't stay with you.
you can't do any more good back there!
stay on the leader!
hurry, luke, they're coming in much faster this time.
i can't hold them!
artoo, try and increase the power!
rebel base, thirty seconds and closing.
i'm on the leader.
use the force, luke.
the force is strong with this one!
luke, you switched off your targeting computer.
the death star has cleared the planet.
the death star has cleared the planet.
rebel base, in range.
you may fire when ready.
i have you now.
you're all clear, kid.
now let's blow this thing and go home!
stand by to fire at rebel base.
that was one in a million.
remember, the force will be with you.
i knew you'd come back!
i just knew it!
well, i wasn't gonna let you get all the credit and take all the reward.
hey, i knew there was more to you than money.
can you hear me?
you can repair him, can't you?
we'll get to work on him right away.
you must repair him!
sir, if any of my circuits or gears will help, i'll gladly donate them.
he'll be all right.
echo three to echo seven.
han, old buddy, do you  read me?
loud and clear, kid.
well, i finished my circle.
i don't pick up any  life readings.
there isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a  space cruiser.
the sensors are placed.
i'll see you shortly.
there's a meteorite  that hit the ground near here.
i want to check it out.
it won't take long.
all right, don't lose your temper.
i'll come right back and give  you a hand.
no sign of life out there, general.
the sensors are in place.
you'll know if anything comes around.
commander skywalker reported in yet?
he's checking out a meteorite that hit near him.
with all the meteor activity in this  system, it's going to be difficult to spot approaching ships.
general, i've got to leave.
i can't stay anymore.
i'm sorry to hear that.
well, there's a price on my head.
if i don't pay off jabba the  hut, i'm a dead man.
a death mark's not an easy thing to live with.
you're a good  fighter, solo.
i hate to lose you.
well, your highness, i guess this is it.
well, don't get all mushy on me.
i thought you decided to stay.
well, the bounty hunter we ran into on ord mantell changed my  mind.
han, we need you!
oh, what about you need?
i don't know what you're talking about.
and what precisely am i supposed to know?
you want me to stay because of the way you feel about  me.
you're a great help to us.
you're a natural leader.
aahhh -- uh huh!
then why are you following me?
afraid i was going to leave  without giving you a goodbye kiss?
i'd just as soon kiss a wookiee.
i can arrange that.
you could use a good kiss!
don't try to blame me.
i didn't ask you to turn on the  thermal heater.
i merely commented that it was freezing in the princess's chamber.
but it's supposed to be freezing.
how are we going to dry out all her clothes?
i really don't know.
why do you take this apart now?
i'm trying to get us  out of here and you pull both of these.
put them back together right now.
might i have a word with you, please?
what do you want?
well, it's princess leia, sir.
she's been trying to get you  on the communicator.
i turned it off.
i don't want to talk to her.
well, princess leia is wondering about master luke.
he  hasn't come back yet.
she doesn't know where he is.
i don't know where he is.
nobody knows where he is.
what do you mean, \
well, uh, you see.
do you know where commander skywalker is?
i haven't seen him.
it's possible he came in through the  south entrance.
why don't you go find out?
it's getting dark out  there.
might i inquire what's going on?
come along, artoo, lets find princess leia.
between ourselves, i think master luke is in considerable danger.
sir, commander skywalker hasn't come in through the  south entrance.
he might have forgotten to check in.
are the speeders ready?
we're having some trouble adapting them to the  cold.
then we'll have to go out on tauntauns.
sir, the temperature's dropping too rapidly.
and my friends out in it.
i'll cover sector twelve.
have com-control set  screen alpha.
your tauntaun'll freeze before you reach the first  marker.
then i'll see you in hell!
you must come along now, artoo.
there's really nothing more  we can do.
and my joints are freezing up.
don't say thing like that!
of course we'll see master luke  again.
he'll be quite all right, you'll see.
he'll be quite all right.
sir, all the patrols are in.
there's still no contact from  skywalker or solo.
mistress leia, artoo says he's been quite unable to pick up  any signals, although he does admit that his own range is far too weak to abandon all hope.
your highness, there's nothing more we can do tonight.
the  shield doors must be closed.
artoo says the chances of survival are seven hundred  seventy-five.
actually, artoo has been known to make mistakes.
from time  to time.
oh, dear, oh, dear.
don't worry about master luke.
i'm sure he'll be all right.
he's quite clever, you know.
for a human being.
you will go to the dagobah system.
there you will learn from yoda, the jedi master who instructed  me.
don't do this, luke.
come on, give me a sign here.
this may smell bad, kid.
but it will keep you warm.
til i get the shelter built.
i thought they smelled bad on the outside!
not much, but  it could be a life form.
this is rouge two.
this is rouge two.
captain  solo, so you copy?
commander skywalker, do you copy?
this is rouge two.
nice of you guys to  drop by.
this is rouge two.
repeat, i found them.
master luke, sir, it's good to see you fully functional  again.
artoo expresses his relief, also.
how are you feeling, kid?
you don't look so bad to me.
in fact,  you look strong enough to pull the ears off a gundark.
that's two you owe me, junior.
well your worship, looks like you managed to keep me around for a  little while longer.
i had nothing to do with it.
general rieekan thinks  it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until we've activated the energy shield.
that's a good story.
i think you just can't bear to let a  gorgeous guy like me out of your sight.
i don't know where you get you delusions, laser brain.
laugh it up, fuzz ball.
but you didn't see us alone in the south  passage.
she expressed her true feelings for me.
why, you stuck up,.
i must have hit her pretty close  to the mark to get her all riled up like that, huh, kid?
why, i guess you don't know everything about women yet?
headquarters personnel, report to command  center.
we have a visitor.
we've picked up something outside the base in zone twelve,  moving east.
then it couldn't be one of those creatures that attacked luke.
it could be a speeder, one of ours.
wait -- there's something very weak coming  through.
sir, i am fluent in six million forms of communication.
this  signal is not used by the alliance.
it could be an imperial code.
it isn't friendly, whatever it is.
come on, chewie, let's check  it out.
send rouges ten and eleven to station three-eight.
afraid there's not much left.
droid of some kind.
i didn't hit it that hard.
it  must have had a self-destruct.
an imperial probe droid.
it's a good bet the empire knows we're here.
we'd better start the evacuation.
i think we've got something, sir.
the report is only a fragment  had.
we have thousands of probe droids searching the  galaxy.
i want proof, not leads!
the visuals indicate life readings.
it could mean anything.
if we followed every lead.
but, sir, the hoth system is supposed to be devoid of human  forms.
the  rebels are there.
my lord, there are so many uncharted settlements.
it could be  smugglers, it could be.
that is the system.
and i'm sure skywalker is with them.
set  your course for the hoth system.
general veers, prepare you men.
groups seven and ten will stay behind to fly the  speeders.
as soon as each transport is loaded, evacuation control will give clearance for immediate launch.
sir, it will take quite awhile to evacuate the t-forty-  sevens.
well, forget the heavy equipment.
there's plenty of time to get  the smaller modules on the transports.
chewie, take care of yourself, okay?
there's got to be a reason for it.
check it  at the other end.
general, there's a fleet of star destroyers coming out of  hyperspace in sector four.
reroute all power to the energy shield.
we've got to hold  them till all transports are away.
prepare for ground assault.
what is it, general?
my lord, the fleet has moves out of light-speed.
com-scan has  detected an energy field protecting an area around the sixth planet of the hoth system.
the field is strong enough to deflect any bombardment.
the rebels are alerted to our presence.
admiral ozzel  came out of light-speed too close to the system.
he felt surprise was wiser.
he is as clumsy as he is stupid.
general, prepare your troops  for a surface attack.
lord vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed, and we're  preparing to.
you have failed me for the last time, admiral.
make ready to land out troops beyond the energy shield and  deploy the fleet so that nothing gets off that system.
you are in command now, admiral piett.
thank you, lord vader.
all troop carriers will assemble at the north entrance.
the  heavy transport ships will leave as soon as they're loaded.
only two fighter escorts per ship.
the energy shield can only be opened for a short time, so you'll have to stay very close to your transports.
two fighters against a star destroyer?
the ion cannon will fire several shots to make sure that any  enemy ships will be out of your flight path.
when you've gotten past the energy shield, proceed directly to the rendezvous point.
everyone to your stations.
their primary target will be the power generators.
prepare to  open the shield.
sir, rebel ships are coming into our sector.
our first catch of the day.
stand by, ion control.
the first transport is away.
feeling all right, sir?
just like new, dack.
right now i feel i could take on the whole empire myself.
i know what you mean.
we have spotted imperial walkers!
imperial walkers on the north ridge.
we're on our way.
all right, boys, keep tight now.
luke, i have no approach vector.
all right, i'm coming in.
hobbie, you still with me?
that armor's too strong for blasters.
rouge group, use your harpoons and tow cables.
go  for the legs.
it might be our only chance of stopping them.
all right, stand by, dack.
luke, we've got a malfunction in fire control.
i'll have to cut  in the auxiliary.
get ready to fire that tow cable.
i've reached the main power generator.
the  shield will be down in moments.
you may start your landing.
wedge, i've lost my gunner.
you'll have to make  this shot.
i'll cover for you.
follow me on the next pass.
coming around, rouge leader.
i see it, wedge.
i don't think we can protect two transports at a time.
it's risky, but we can't hold out much longer.
we have no  choice.
evacuate remaining ground staff.
this one goes there, that one goes there.
artoo, you take good care of master luke now, understand?
do take care of yourself.
oh, dear, oh, dear.
all troops will debark for ground assault.
prepare to target  the main generator.
rouge two, are you all right?
i'm with you, rouge leader.
i'll cover for you.
watch that cross fire, boys.
set for position three.
stay tight and low.
hobbie, i've been hit!
why are you still here?
i heard the command center had been hit.
you got your clearance to leave.
first i'm going to get you to your ship.
your highness, we must take this last transport.
it's our  only hope.
send all troops in sector twelve to the south  slope to protect the fighters.
imperial troops have entered the base.
give the evacuation code signal.
and get to  your transports!
distance to power generators?
transport, this is solo.
better take off -- i  can't get to you.
i'll get the princess out on the falcon.
where are you going?
hurry up, goldenrod, or you're going to be a permanent resident!
would it helped if i got out and pushed?
captain solo, captain solo.
sir, might i suggest that  you.
the bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade.
this baby's got a few surprises left in her, sweetheart.
let's hope we don't have a  burnout.
someday you're going to be wrong, and i hope i'm there to see it.
get her ready for takeoff.
see you at the rendezvous.
we're going, we're going.
there's nothing wrong, artoo.
i'm just setting a  new course.
we're not going to regroup with the others.
we're going to the dagobah system.
i'd like to keep it  on manual control for a while.
star destroyers, two of them, coming right at us.
shut him up or shut him down!
check the  deflector shield!
well, we can still outmaneuver them.
prepare to make the jump to light-speed.
i think we're in trouble.
if i may say so, sir, i noticed earlier the hyperdrive  motivator has been damaged.
it's impossible to go to light-speed!
well that's not it.
bring me the hydrospanners!
i don't know how we're going to get out of this one.
that was no laser blast!
han, get up here!
what are you doing?
you're not actually going into an asteroid  field?
they'd be crazy to follow us, wouldn't they?
you don't have to do this to impress me.
sir, the possibility of successfully navigating an asteroid  field is approximately three thousand, seven hundred and twenty to one.
never tell me the odds!
you said you wanted to be around when i made a mistake; well,  this could be it, sweetheart.
i take it back.
we're going to get pulverized if we stay out  here much longer.
i'm not going to argue with that.
i'm going in closer to one of the big ones.
oh, this is suicide!
that looks pretty good.
what looks pretty good?
excuse me, ma'am, but where are we going?
i hope you know what you're doing.
no, i'm not going to change my mind about this.
i'm not picking up any cities or technology.
massive life-form readings, though.
there's something alive down there.
yes, i'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.
i know, i know!
all the scopes are dead.
i can't  see a thing!
just hang on, i'm going to start the landing cycle.
no, artoo, you stay put.
i'll have a look around.
you be more careful.
artoo -- that way!
are you all right?
you're lucky you don't taste  very good.
if you're saying coming here was a bad idea, i'm beginning to  agree with you.
oh, artoo, what are we doing here?
something out of a dream, or, i don't know.
maybe i'm just going crazy.
our ships have sighted the millennium falcon, lord.
it  has entered an asteroid field and we cannot risk.
asteroids do not concern me, admiral.
i want  that ship and not excuses.
i'm going to shut down everything but the emergency power  systems.
sir, i'm almost afraid to ask, but.
does that include  shutting me down, too?
no, i need you to talk to the falcon, find out what's wrong with  the hyperdrive.
sir, it's quite possible this asteroid is not entirely  stable.
i'm glad you're here to tell us these  things.
chewie, take the professor in the back and plug him into the hyperdrive.
sometimes i just don't understand human behavior.
after  all, i'm only trying to do my job in the most.
captain, being held by you isn't quite enough to get me excited.
we haven't got time for anything else.
ready for some power?
put that in there.
now all i have to do is find this yoda.
if he even  exists.
there's something familiar about this place.
like we're being watched!
away with your weapon!
i mean you no harm.
i am wondering, why are you here?
i'm looking for someone.
found someone, you have, i would say, hmmm?
help you i can.
i don't think so.
i'm looking for a great warrior.
wars not  make one great.
how you get so big, eating food of this kind?
listen, friend, we didn't mean to land in that puddle, and if we  could get our ship out, we would, but we can't, so why don't you just.
aww, cannot get your ship out?
hey, you could have broken this.
you're  making a mess.
hey, give me that!
or i will help you not.
i don't want your help.
i want my lamp back.
i'll need it to get  out of this slimy mudhole.
my home this is.
oh, artoo, let him have it.
now will you move along, little fella?
we're got a lot  of work to do.
stay and help you, i will.
find your  friend, hmm?
i'm not looking for a friend, i'm looking for a jedi master.
take you to him, i will.
but now, we  must eat.
stay here and watch after the camp, artoo.
oh, where is artoo when i need him?
sir, i don't know where your ship learned to communicate,  but it has the most peculiar dialect.
i believe, sir, it says that the power coupling on the negative axis has been polarized.
i'm afraid you'll have to replace it.
well, of course i'll have to replace it.
i think we'd better replace the negative power  coupling.
hey, your worship, i'm only trying to help.
would you please stop calling me that?
oh, you make it so difficult sometimes.
i do, i really do.
you could be a little nicer, though.
come on, admit it.
sometimes you think i'm all right.
when you aren't  acting like a scoundrel.
i like the sound of that.
my hands are dirty.
my hands are dirty, too.
what are you afraid of?
you like me because i'm a scoundrel.
there aren't enough  scoundrels in your life.
i happen to like nice men.
i'm a nice man.
i've isolated the reverse power flux coupling.
thank you very much.
oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.
and that, lord vader, was the last time they  appeared in any of our scopes.
considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they must have been destroyed.
no, captain, they're alive.
i want every ship available to  sweep the asteroid field until they are found.
yes, admiral, what is it?
the emperor commands you make contact with him.
move the ship out of the asteroid field so that we can send a  clear transmission.
what is thy bidding, my master?
there is a great disturbance in the force.
i have felt it.
we have a new enemy -- luke skywalker.
he could destroy us.
he's just a boy.
obi-wan can no longer help him.
the force is strong with him.
the son of skywalker must not  become a jedi.
if he could be turned, he would become a powerful ally.
he would be a great asset.
can it be done?
he will join us or die, my master.
look, i'm sure it's delicious.
i just don't understand why we  can't see yoda now.
for the jedi it is time to eat as well.
how far away is yoda?
will it take us long to get there?
soon you will be with him.
why wish you become jedi?
mostly because of my father, i guess.
powerful jedi was he, powerful jedi, mmm.
how could you know my father?
you  don't even know who i am.
oh, i don't even know what i'm doing here.
we're wasting our time.
i cannot teach him.
the boy has no patience.
he will learn patience.
much anger in him, like his father.
was i any different when you taught me?
he is not ready.
i can be a jedi.
ben, tell him i'm  ready.
what know you of ready?
for eight hundred years  have i trained jedi.
my own counsel will i keep on who is to be trained!
a jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind.
this one a long time have i watched.
never his mind on where he was.
what he was doing.
a jedi craves not these things.
so was i, if you'll remember.
he is too old.
yes, too old to begin the training.
but i've learned so much.
will he finished what he begins?
i won't fail you -- i'm not afraid.
oh, you will be.
sir, if i may venture an opinion.
i'm not really interested in your opinion, threepio.
there's something out there.
outside, in the cave.
i'm going out there.
i just got this bucket back together.
i'm not going to let  something tear it apart.
then i'm going with you.
i think it might be better if i stay here and guard the  ship.
this ground sure feels strange.
it doesn't feel like rock at  all.
there's an awful lot of moisture in here.
i have a bad feeling about this.
yeah, that's what i thought.
chewie, check the rest of  the ship, make sure there aren't any more attached.
they're chewing on the power cables.
we'll clean them off if there are any more.
all right, chewie, let's get out of here!
the empire is still out there.
i don't think it's wise to.
no time to discuss this as a committee.
i am not a committee!
you can't make the jump to light-speed in this asteroid field.
i see it, i see it.
the cave is collapsing.
this is no cave.
a jedi's strength flows from the force.
but beware of  the dark side.
the dark side of the force are they.
easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight.
if once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did obi-wan's apprentice.
is the dark side stronger?
quicker, easier, more seductive.
but how am i to know the good side from the bad?
when you are calm, at peace.
a jedi uses  the force for knowledge and defense, never for attack.
but tell me why i can't.
no, no, there is no why.
nothing more will i  teach you today.
clear your mind of questions.
there's something not right here.
i feel cold, death.
is strong with the dark side of the force.
a domain  of evil it is.
in you must go.
only what you take with you.
you will not need them.
we don't need that scum.
those rebels won't escape us.
sir, we have a priority signal from the star  destroyer avenger.
there will be a substantial reward for the one who finds  the millennium falcon.
you are free to use any methods necessary, but i want them alive.
my lord, we have them.
oh, thank goodness we're coming out of the asteroid field.
let's get out of here.
the transfer circuits are working.
it's not my fault!
it's not my fault.
sir, we just lost the main rear deflector shield.
one more  direct hit on the back quarter and we're done for.
i said turn her around!
i'm going to put all power in the front  shield.
you're going to attack them?
sir, the odds of surviving a direct assault on an imperial  star destroyer.
they're moving to attack position.
they may come around for another pass.
captain needa, the ship no longer appears on our  scopes.
they can't have disappeared.
no ship that small has a cloaking  device.
well, there's no trace of them, sir.
captain, lord vader demands an update on the  pursuit.
get a shuttle ready.
i shall assume full  responsibility for losing them, and apologize to lord vader.
meanwhile, continue to scan the area.
we'll never get it out now.
so certain are you.
always with you it cannot be done.
hear you  nothing that i say?
master, moving stones around is one thing.
this is totally  different.
only different in your mind.
you must unlearn  what you have learned.
all right, i'll give it a try.
there is no try.
judge me by my size, do you?
and well you should not.
for my ally in the force.
and a  powerful ally it is.
life creates it, makes it grow.
it's energy surrounds us and binds us.
luminous beings are we.
not this crude matter.
you must feel the force around you.
yes, even between this land and that ship!
you want the impossible.
i don't believe it.
that is why you fail.
apology accepted, captain needa.
lord vader, our ships have completed their scan of the area and  found nothing.
if the millennium falcon went into light-speed, it'll be on the other side of the galaxy by now.
calculate every possible destination along  their last know trajectory.
don't fail me again, admiral.
captain solo, this time you have gone too far.
no, i will not be quiet, chewbacca.
why doesn't anyone listen to me?
the fleet is beginning to break up.
go back and stand  by the manual release for the landing claw.
i really don't see how thats going to help.
surrender is a  perfectly acceptable alternative in extreme circumstances.
the empire may be gracious enough.
what did you have in mind for your next move?
well, if they follow standard imperial procedure, they'll dump  their garbage before they go to light-speed, then we just float away.
with the rest of the garbage.
then we've got to find a safe port somewhere around here.
there's not much there.
lando's not a system, he's a man.
he's a card  player, gambler, scoundrel.
it's pretty far, but i think we can make it.
yeah, a tibanna gas mine.
lando conned somebody out of it.
we go  back a long way, lando and me.
can you trust him?
but he has no love for the empire, i can tell you that.
here we go, chewie.
you do have your moments.
not many, but you have them.
feel the force flow.
through  the force, things you will see.
old friends long gone.
you must learn control.
i saw a city in the clouds.
friends you have there.
they were in pain.
it is the future you see.
always in motion is the future.
i've got to go to them.
decide you must how to serve them best.
if you leave now, help  them you could.
but you would destroy all for which they have fought and suffered.
no, i don't have a landing permit.
i'm trying  to reach lando calrissian.
you will not deviate from your present course.
rather touchy, aren't they?
i thought you knew this person.
well, that was a long time ago.
i'm sure he's  forgotten about that.
permission granted to land on platform  three-two-seven.
there's nothing to worry about.
we go way back, lando and me.
no one to meet us.
i don't like this.
well, what would you like?
well, they did let us land.
everything's going to be fine.
keep your eyes open, okay?
why, you slimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler!
you've got a  lot of guts coming here, after what you pulled.
how you doing, you old pirate?
so good to see you!
i  never thought i'd catch up with you again.
well, he seems very friendly.
what are you doing here?
i thought you could  help me out.
what have you done to my ship?
hey, remember, you lost her to me fair and square.
what have we here?
i'm  the administrator of this facility.
and who might you be?
all right, all right, you old smoothie.
i am see-threepio, human-cyborg relations.
my  facilities are at your.
what's wrong with the falcon?
i'll get my people to work on it.
you know, that ship saved my life quite a few times.
she's the  fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.
how's the gas mine?
is it paying off for you?
oh, not as well as i'd like.
we're a small outpost and not very  self-sufficient.
and i've had supply problems of every kind.
i've had labor difficulties.
listen to you -- you sound like a businessman, a responsible  leader.
who'd have thought that, huh?
you know, seeing you sure brings back a few things.
yeah, i'm responsible these days.
it's the  price you pay for being successful.
nice to see a familiar face.
that sounds like an r2 unit in there.
oh, i'm terribly sorry.
i didn't mean to intrude.
no,  no, please don't get up.
you must complete the training.
i can't keep the vision out of my head.
i've  got to help them.
you must not go!
but han and leia will die if i don't.
you don't know that.
even yoda cannot see their fate.
but i can help them!
i feel the force!
but you cannot control it.
this is a dangerous time for you, when  you will be tempted by the dark side of the force.
to obi-wan you listen.
remember your failure  at the cave!
but i've learned so much since then.
master yoda, i promise to  return and finish what i've begun.
you have my word.
it is you and your abilities the emperor wants.
that is why your  friends are made to suffer.
and that is why i have to go.
luke, i don't want to lose you to the emperor the way i lost  vader.
stopped they must be.
only a fully trained jedi  knight with the force as his ally will conquer vader and his emperor.
if you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path, as vader did, you will become an agent of evil.
and sacrifice han and leia?
if you honor what they fight for.
if you choose to face vader, you will do it alone.
artoo, fire up the  converters.
luke, don't give in to hate -- that leads to the dark side.
mind what you have learned.
save you it can.
told you, i did.
now matters are worse.
that boy is our last hope.
the ship is almost finished.
two or three more things and we're  in great shape.
the sooner the better.
no one has seen  or knows anything about threepio.
he's been gone too long to have gotten lost.
i'll talk to lando and see what i can find out.
i don't trust lando.
well, i don't trust him, either.
but he is my friend.
besides,  we'll soon be gone.
and then you're as good as gone, aren't you?
found him in a junk pile?
oh, what a mess.
chewie, do you think you can repair him?
lando's got people who can fix him.
am i interrupting anything?
you look absolutely beautiful.
you truly belong here with us  among the clouds.
will you join me for a little refreshment?
everyone's invited, of course.
having trouble with you droid?
so you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into  the.
jurisdiction of the empire.
so you're part of the mining guild then?
our operation is small enough not to be  noticed.
which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves.
aren't you afraid the empire's going to find out about this  little operation and shut you down?
that's always been a danger looming like a shadow over  everything we've built here.
but things have developed that will insure security.
i've just made a deal that will keep the empire out of here forever.
we would be honored if you would join us.
i had no choice.
they arrived right before you did.
no, threepio's with them.
uh, i, uh -- take this off!
i, uh, don't mean  to intrude here.
i, don't, no, no, no.
please don't get up.
i must tell the  others.
you may take captain solo to jabba the hut after i  have skywalker.
he's no good to me dead.
he will not be permanently damaged.
lord vader, what about leia and the wookiee?
they must never again leave this city.
that was never a condition of our agreement, nor was giving han  to this bounty hunter!
perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly.
it would be unfortunate if i had to leave a garrison  here.
this deal's getting worse all the time.
oh, yes, that's very good.
something's not  right because now i can't see.
what have you done?
i'm backwards, you stupid furball.
only an overgrown mophead like you would be stupid enough.
why are they doing this?
they never even asked me any questions.
get out of here, lando!
shut up and listen!
vader has agreed to turn leia and chewie  over to me.
they'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe.
vader's giving him to the bounty hunter.
vader wants us all dead.
he doesn't want you at all.
he's after somebody called  skywalker.
lord vader has set a trap for him.
and we're the bait.
well, he's on his way.
you fixed us all pretty good, didn't you?
i've done all i can do.
i'm sorry i couldn't do better,  but i have my own problems.
yeah, you're a real hero.
you certainly have a way with people.
this facility is crude, but it should be adequate to freeze  skywalker for his journey to the emperor.
lord vader, ship approaching.
monitor skywalker and allow him to land.
lord vader, we only use this facility for carbon freezing.
if  you put him in there, it might kill him.
i do not want the emperor's prize damaged.
we will test it.
if only you had attached my legs, i wouldn't be in this  ridiculous position.
now, remember, chewbacca, you have a responsibility to me, so don't do anything foolish.
you're being put into carbon freeze.
what if he doesn't survive?
he's worth a lot to me.
the empire will compensate you if he dies.
do you hear me?
i'm not ready to die.
chewie, this won't help me.
there'll be another time.
the princess -- you  have to take care of her.
turn around, chewbacca, i can't see.
they've encased him in carbonite.
he should be quite well-protected -- if he survives the freezing process, that is.
well, calrissian, did he survive?
and in perfect hibernation.
he's all yours bounty hunter.
reset the chamber for skywalker.
skywalker has just landed, my lord.
see to it that he finds his way here.
calrissian, take  the princess and the wookiee to my ship.
you said they'd be left in the city under my supervision.
i am altering the deal.
pray i don't alter it any further.
luke, don't -- it's a trap!
the force is with you, young skywalker.
but you are not a jedi  yet.
hold them in the security tower -- and keep it  quiet.
what do you think you're doing?
we're getting out of here.
i knew all along it had to be a mistake.
do you think that after what you did to han we're going to trust  you?
i had no choice.
what are you doing?
trust him, trust him!
oh, so we understand, don't we, chewie?
he had no choice.
i'm just trying to help.
we don't need any of your help.
it sounds like han.
there's still a chance to save han.
i mean, at the east  platform.
i'm terribly sorry about all this.
after all,  he's only a wookiee.
put captain solo in the cargo hold.
where have you been?
turn around, you wooly.
we're  trying to save han from the bounty hunter!
well, at least your still in one piece!
look what happened  to me!
chewie, they're behind you!
you have learned much, young one.
you'll find i'm full of surprises.
your destiny lies with me, skywalker.
obi-wan knew this to be  true.
perhaps you are not as strong as the emperor  thought.
obi-wan has taught you well.
you have controlled your fear.
now release your anger.
only your hatred can destroy me.
the security codes has been changed!
artoo, you can tell the computer to override the security  system.
this is lando calrissian.
the empire has takes  control of the city.
i advise everyone to leave before more imperial troops arrive.
i'm not supposed to know  a power socket from a computer terminal.
what are you talking about?
we're not interested in the  hyperdrive on the millennium falcon.
just open the door, you stupid lump.
i never doubted you for a second.
that hurt, bend down, you thoughtless.
i thought that hairy beast would be the end of me.
of  course, i've looked better.
it is useless to resist.
don't let yourself be  destroyed as obi-wan did.
there is no escape.
don't make me destroy you.
you do not yet  realize your importance.
you have only begun to discover you power.
join me and i will complete your training.
with our combined strength, we can end this destructive conflict and bring order to the galaxy.
i'll never join you!
if you only knew the power of the dark side.
obi-wan never told  you what happened to your father.
he told me enough!
he told me you killed him.
i am your father.
you know it to be true.
you can destroy the emperor.
he has foreseen this.
it is  your destiny.
join me, and we can rule the galaxy as father and son.
it's the only way.
we've got to go back.
i know where luke is.
but what about those fighter?
chewie, just do it.
but what about vader?
all right, all right, all right.
look, someone's up there.
slow down and we'll get under him.
lando, open the top hatch.
if your people fixed the hyperdrive.
all the coordinates are set.
it's now or never.
they told me they fixed it.
i trusted them to fix it.
it's not  my fault!
they'll be in range of our tractor beam in moments, lord.
did your men deactivate the hyperdrive on the millennium  falcon?
prepare the boarding party and set for your weapons for  stun.
why don't we just go into light-speed?
how would you know the hyperdrive is deactivated?
the city's central computer told you?
artoo-detoo, you know  better than to trust a strange computer.
pay attention to what you're doing!
son, come with me.
ben, why didn't you tell me?
it is your destiny.
ben, why didn't you tell me?
ready for the tractor beam.
artoo, come back at once!
you haven't finished with me yet!
you don't know how to fix the hyperdrive.
chewbacca can do it.
i'm standing here in pieces, and you're having delusions of grandeur!
oh, you did it!
luke, we're ready for takeoff.
when we find jabba the hut and that bounty  hunter, we'll contact you.
i'll meet you at the rendezvous point on  tatooine.
princess, we'll find han.
chewie, i'll be waiting for your signal.
take care, you two.
may the force be with you.
command station, this is st 321.
we're starting our approach.
deactivate the security shield.
the security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your code transmission.
you are clear to proceed.
we're starting our approach.
inform the commander that lord vader's shuttle has arrived.
lord vader, this is an unexpected pleasure.
we're honored by your presence.
you may dispense with the pleasantries, commander.
i'm here to put you back on schedule.
i assure you, lord vader, my men are working as fast as they can.
perhaps i can find new ways to motivate them.
i tell you, this station will be operational as planned.
the emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.
but he asks the impossible.
i need more men.
then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.
the emperor's coming here?
that is correct, commander.
and he is most displeased with your apparent lack of progress.
we shall double our efforts.
i hope so, commander, for your sake.
the emperor is not as forgiving as i am.
of course i'm worried.
and you should be, too.
lando calrissian and poor chewbacca never returned from this awful place.
don't be so sure.
if i told you half the things i've heard about this jabba the hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.
artoo, are you sure this is the right place?
i better knock, i suppose.
there doesn't seem to be anyone there.
let's go back and tell master luke.
tee chuta hhat yudd!
artoo detoowha bo seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka jabba du hutt.
i don't think they're going to let us in, artoo.
artoo, i really don't think we should rush into all this.
artoo, wait for me!
just you deliver master luke's message and get us out of here.
we -- we bring a message to your master, jabba the hutt.
nee jabba no badda.
me chaade su goodie.
he says that our instructions are to give it only to jabba himself.
i'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort of things.
artoo, i have a bad feeling about this.
the message, artoo, the message.
allow me to introduce myself.
i am luke skywalker, jedi knight and friend to captain solo.
i know that you are powerful, mighty jabba, and that your anger with solo must be equally powerful.
i seek an audience with your greatness to bargain for solo's life.
with your wisdom, i'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant confrontation.
as a token of my goodwill, i present to you a gift: these two droids.
what did he say?
both are hardworking and will serve you well.
artoo, you're playing the wrong message.
there will be no bargain.
i will not give up my favorite decoration.
i like captain solo where he is.
and he's still frozen in carbonite.
what could possibly have come over master luke.
is it something i did?
he never expressed any unhappiness with my work.
you are a protocol droid, are you not?
i am see-threepio, human-cy.
yes or no will do.
how many languages do you speak?
i am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can readily.
we have been without an interpreter since our master got angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.
this protocol droid might be useful.
fit him with a restraining bolt and take him back to his excellency's main audience chamber.
artoo, don't leave me!
you're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect.
i have need for you on the master's sail barge.
and i think you'll fit in nicely.
na chuba negatorie na!
i have come for the bounty on this wookiee.
at last we have the mighty chewbacca.
oh, uh, yes, uh, i am here, your worshipfulness.
the illustrious jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the reward of twenty- five thousand.
i want fifty thousand.
but what, what did i say?
uh, the mighty jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.
because he's holding a thermal detonator.
this bounty hunter is my kind of scum.
jabba offers the sum of thirty-five.
and i suggest you take it.
just relax for a moment.
you're free of the carbonite.
you have hibernation sickness.
you eyesight will return in time.
someone who loves you.
i gotta get you out of here.
i know that laugh.
look, jabba, i was just on my way to pay you back, but i got a little sidetracked.
it's not my fault.
it's too late for that, solo.
you may have been a good smuggler, but now you're bantha fodder.
i'll pay you triple!
you're throwing away a fortune here.
don't be a fool!
bring her to me.
we have powerful friends.
you're gonna regret this.
ohhh, i can't bear to watch.
chewie, is that you?
i can't see, pal.
he can't even take care of himself, much less rescue anybody.
i--i'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets delusions of grandeur.
i'm all right, pal.
i must speak with jabba.
you will take me to jabba now!
you serve your master well.
and you will be rewarded.
master luke's come to rescue me.
luke skywalker, jedi knight.
i told you not to admit him.
i must be allowed to speak.
he must be allowed to speak.
he's using an old jedi mind trick.
you will bring captain solo and the wookiee to me.
your mind powers will not work on me, boy.
nevertheless, i'm taking captain solo and his friends.
you can either profit by this.
but i warn you not to underestimate my powers.
master luke, you're standing on.
there will be no bargain, young jedi.
i shall enjoy watching you die.
bring me solo and the wookiee.
they will all suffer for this outrage.
are you all right?
how are we doing?
the same as always.
his high exaltedness, the great jabba the hutt, has decreed that you are to be terminated immediately.
good, i hate long waits.
you will therefore be taken to the dune sea and cast into the pit of carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful sarlacc.
doesn't sound so bad.
in his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as you are slowly digested over a thousand years.
on second thought, let's pass on that, huh?
you should have bargained, jabba.
that's the last mistake you'll ever make.
i think my eyes are getting better.
instead of a big dark blur, i see a big light blur.
there's nothing to see.
i used to live here, you know.
you're gonna die here, you know.
just stick close to chewie and lando.
i've taken care of everything.
soon you will learn to appreciate me.
oh, i'm terribly sor.
what are you doing here?
well, i can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous.
they're going to execute master luke and, if we're not careful, us too!
i wish i had your confidence.
victims of the almighty sarlacc: his excellency hopes that you will die honorably.
but should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great jabba the hutt will now listen to your pleas.
threepio, you tell that slimy piece of.
worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasure from us.
this is your last chance.
free us or die.
move him into position.
you almost got it!
chewie, give me the gun.
i thought you were blind!
just a little higher!
chewie, pull us up!
we gotta get out of here quick.
point it at the deck!
point it at the deck!
artoo, where are we going?
i couldn't possibly jump.
and don't forget the droids.
we're on our way.
all i can see is a lot of blowing sand!
that's all any of us can see.
then i guess i'm getting better.
i've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.
i had a lot of help.
think nothing of it.
no, i'm thinking a lot about it.
that carbon freeze was the closest thing to dead there is.
and it wasn't just sleepin'.
it was a big wide awake nothing!
i'll see you back at the fleet.
why don't you leave that crate and come with us?
i have a promise i have to keep first.
to an old friend.
guess i owe you some thanks, too, lando.
figured if i left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of my life, so i might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.
come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.
i'll meet you back at the fleet.
the alliance should be assembled by now.
thanks for comin' after me.
now i owe you one.
we're going to the  dagobah system.
i have a promise to keep.
to an old friend.
the death star will be completed on schedule.
you have done well, lord vader.
and now i sense you wish to continue your search for young skywalker.
in time he will seek you out.
and when he does, you must bring him before me.
he has grown strong.
only together can we turn him to the dark side of the force.
everything is proceeding as i have foreseen.
that face you make.
look i so old to young eyes?
i do, yes, i do!
sick have i become.
when nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not.
soon will i rest.
earned it, i have.
master yoda, you can't die.
strong am i with the force.
but not that strong!
twilight is upon me and soon night must fall.
that is the way of things .
the way of the force.
but i need your help.
i've come back to complete the training.
no more training do you require.
already know you that which you need.
then i am a jedi?
one thing remains: vader.
you must confront vader.
then, only then, a jedi will you be.
and confront him you will.
is darth vader my father?
yoda, i must know.
your father he is.
told you, did he?
unexpected this is, and unfortunate.
unfortunate that i know the truth?
unfortunate that you rushed to face him.
that incomplete was your training.
not ready for the burden were you.
remember, a jedi's strength flows from the force.
the dark side are they.
once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny.
do not underestimate the powers of the emperor, or suffer your father's fate, you will.
luke, when gone am i , the last of the jedi will you be.
luke, the force runs strong in your family.
pass on what you have learned, luke.
i can't do it, artoo.
i can't go on alone.
yoda will always be with you.
why didn't you tell me?
you told me vader betrayed and murdered my father.
you father was seduced by the dark side of the force.
he ceased to be anakin skywalker and became darth vader.
when that happened, the good man who was your father was destroyed.
so what i have told you was true.
from a certain point of view.
a certain point of view!
luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend greatly on our own point of view.
i don't blame you for being angry.
if i was wrong in what i did, it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time.
you see, what happened to your father was my fault.
anakin was a good friend.
when i first knew him, your father was already a great pilot.
but i was amazed how strongly the force was with him.
i took it upon myself to train him as a jedi.
i thought that i could instruct him just as well as yoda.
my pride has had terrible consequences for the galaxy.
there's still good in him.
i also thought he could be turned back to the good side.
it couldn't be done.
he is more machine now than man.
i can't do it, ben.
you cannot escape your destiny.
i tried to stop him once.
i couldn't do it.
vader humbled you when first you met him, luke.
but that experience was part of your training.
it taught you, among other things, the value of patience.
had you not been so impatient to defeat vader then, you could have finished your training here with yoda.
you would have been prepared.
but i had to help my friends.
and did you help them?
it was they who had to save you.
you achieved little by rushing back prematurely, i fear.
i found out darth vader was my father.
to be a jedi, luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side - the side your father couldn't get past.
impatience is the easiest door - for you, like your father.
only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm.
you're no longer so reckless now, luke.
you are strong and patient.
and now, you must face darth vader again!
i can't kill my own father.
then the emperor has already won.
you were our only hope.
yoda spoke of another.
the other he spoke of is your twin sister.
but i have no sister.
to protect you both from the emperor, you were hidden from your father when you were born.
the emperor knew, as i did, if anakin were to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him.
that is the reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.
your insight serves you well.
bury your feelings deep down, luke.
they do you credit.
but they could be made to serve the emperor.
when your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant.
your mother and i knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.
so i took you to live with my brother owen on tatooine.
and your mother took leia to live as the daughter of senator organa, on alderaan.
the organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in that system.
leia became a princess by virtue of lineage.
no one knew she'd been adopted, of course.
but it was a title without real power, since alderaan had long been a democracy.
even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, and leia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well.
that's not all she became, of course.
she became the leader of her cell in the alliance against the corrupt empire.
and because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link for getting information to the rebel cause.
that's what she was doing when her path crossed yours.
for her foster parents had always told her to contact me on tatooine, if her troubles became desperate.
but you can't let her get involved now, ben.
vader will destroy her.
she hasn't been trained in the ways of the jedi the way you have, luke .
but the force is strong with her, as it is with all of your family.
there is no avoiding the battle.
you must face and destroy vader!
well, look at you, a general, huh?
oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of taanab.
well, don't look at me, pal.
i just said you were a fair pilot.
i didn't know they were lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.
i'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.
well, who says they didn't.
but i ain't crazy.
you're the respectable one, remember?
the emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has come.
the data brought to us by the bothan spies pinpoints the exact location of the emperor's new battle station.
we also know that the weapon systems of this death star are not yet operational.
with the imperial fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is relatively unprotected.
but most important of all, we've learned that the emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the construction of this death star.
many bothans died to bring us this information.
you can see here the death star orbiting the forest moon of endor.
although the weapon systems on this death star are not yet operational, the death star does have a strong defense mechanism.
it is protected by an energy shield, which is generated from the nearby forest moon of endor.
the shield must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted.
once the shield is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.
general calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack
you're gonna need it.
we have stolen a small imperial shuttle.
disguised as a cargo ship, and using a secret imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the shield generator.
i wonder who they found to pull that off.
general solo, is your strike team assembled?
uh, my team's ready.
i don't have a command crew for the shuttle.
well, it's gonna be rough, pal.
i didn't want to speak for you.
i'm with you, too!
ask me again sometime.
i want you to take her.
you need all the help you can get.
she's the fastest ship in the fleet.
all right, old buddy.
you know, i know what she means to you.
i'll take good care of her.
she-she won't get a scratch.
i got your promise now.
look, would you get going, you pirate.
you got her warmed?
yeah, she's comin' up.
i don't think the empire had wookiees in mind when they designed her, chewie.
hey, are you awake?
yeah, i just got a funny feeling.
like i'm not gonna see her again.
come on, general, let's move.
chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do.
here we go again.
all right, hang on.
what is thy bidding, my master?
send the fleet to the far side of endor.
there it will stay until called for.
what of the reports of the rebel fleet massing near sullust?
it is of no concern.
soon the rebellion will be crushed and young skywalker will be one of us!
your work here is finished, my friend.
go out to the command ship and await my orders.
if they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty quick, chewie.
we have you on our screen now.
shuttle tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.
shuttle tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.
now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.
vader's on that ship.
now don't get jittery, luke.
there are a lot of command ships.
keep your distance though, chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep your distance.
i'm endangering the mission.
i shouldn't have come.
it's your imagination, kid.
let's keep a little optimism here.
where is that shuttle going?
shuttle tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?
parts and technical crew for the forest moon.
do they have a code clearance?
it's an older code, sir, but it checks out.
i was about to clear them.
shall i hold them?
leave them to me.
i will deal with them myself.
as you wish, my lord.
they're not goin' for it, chewie.
shuttle tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately.
follow your present course.
i told you it was gonna work.
oh, i told you it was dangerous here.
shall we try and go around?
this whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.
chewie and i will take care of this.
quietly, there might be more of them out there.
two more of them!
get alongside that one!
keep on that one!
i'll take these two!
oh, general solo, somebody's coming.
she didn't come back?
i thought she was with you.
hey, we better go look for her.
take the squad ahead.
we'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.
we'll need your scanners.
don't worry, master luke.
we know what to do.
and you said it was pretty here.
i'm not gonna hurt you.
well, looks like i'm stuck here.
trouble is, i don't know where here is.
well, maybe you can help me.
come on, sit down.
i promise i won't hurt you.
you want something to eat?
look, it's a hat.
it's not gonna hurt you.
you're a jittery little thing, aren't you?
come on, get up!
go get your ride and take her back to base.
come on, let's get outta here.
the emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.
the emperor will see me, now!
the emperor will see you, now.
i told you to remain on the command ship.
a small rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on endor.
my son is with them.
i have felt him, my master.
strange, that i have not.
i wonder if your feelings on this matter are clear, lord vader.
they are clear, my master.
then you must go to the sanctuary moon and wait for them.
he will come to me?
i have foreseen it.
his compassion for you will be his undoing.
he will come to you and then you will bring him before me.
there's two more wrecked speeders back there.
and i found this.
i'm afraid that artoo's sensors can find no trace of princess leia.
i hope she's alright.
hey, i don't get it.
nah, it's just a dead animal, chewie.
always thinking with your stomach.
will you take it easy?
let's just figure out a way to get out of this thing.
han, can you reach my lightsaber?
artoo, i'm not sure that's such a good idea.
it's a very long dro-o-op!
point that thing someplace else.
it'll be all right.
chewie, give 'em your crossbow.
do you understand anything they're saying?
oh, yes, master luke!
remember that i am fluent in over six million forms of communication.
what are you telling them?
i could be mistaken.
they're using a very primitive dialect.
but i do believe they think i am some sort of god.
well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?
i beg your pardon, general solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.
it's against my programming to impersonate a deity.
he's an old friend of mine.
i have a really bad feeling about this.
what did he say?
i'm rather embarrassed, general solo, but it appears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor.
but these are my friends.
threepio, tell them they must be set free.
somehow, i got the feeling that didn't help us very much.
threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic.
but master luke, what magic?
you see, master luke; they didn't believe me.
as i said they wouldn't.
oh, oh, oh, oh!
i never knew i had it in me.
i was just coming to that.
we are now a part of the tribe.
just what i always wanted.
well, short help is better than no help at all, chewie.
he says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield generator.
how far is it?
we need some fresh supplies, too.
and try and get our weapons back.
and hurry up, will ya?
i haven't got all day.
do you remember your mother?
just a little bit.
she died when i was very young.
what do you remember?
she was very beautiful.
why are you asking me all this?
i have no memory of my mother.
i never knew her.
now, on this moon.
how do you know?
i felt his presence.
he's come for me.
he can feel when i'm near.
that's why i have to go.
as long as i stay, i'm endangering the group and our mission here.
i have to face him.
it won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must.
if i don't make it back, you're the only hope for the alliance.
luke, don't talk that way.
you have a power i--i don't understand and could never have.
you have that power too.
in time you'll learn to use it as i have.
the force is strong in my family.
my father has it.
my sister has it.
then you know why i have to face him.
luke, run away, far away.
if he can feel your presence, then leave this place.
i wish i could go with you.
you've always been strong.
but, why must you confront him?
there is good in him.
he won't turn me over to the emperor.
i can save him.
i can turn him back to the good side.
i have to try.
hey, what's goin' on?
i - just want to be alone for a little while.
come on, tell me.
i can't tell you.
did you tell luke?
is that who you could tell?
this is a rebel that surrendered to us.
although he denies it, i believe there may be more of them, and i request permission to conduct a further search of the area.
he was armed only with this.
conduct your search and bring his companions to me.
the emperor has been expecting you.
so, you have accepted the truth.
i've accepted the truth that you were once anakin skywalker, my father.
that name no longer has any meaning for me.
it is the name of your true self.
i know there is good in you.
the emperor hasn't driven it from you fully.
that is why you couldn't destroy me.
that's why you won't bring me to your emperor now.
i see you have constructed a new lightsaber.
your skills are complete.
indeed, you are powerful, as the emperor has foreseen.
obi-wan once thought as you do.
you don't know the power of the dark side.
i must obey my master.
i will not turn.
and you'll be forced to kill me.
if that is your destiny.
search your feelings, father.
you can't do this.
i feel the conflict within you.
let go of your hate.
it is too late for me, son.
the emperor will show you the true nature of the force.
he is your master now.
then my father is truly dead.
the main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that landing platform.
this isn't gonna be easy.
chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily guarded than this.
he says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.
admiral, we're in position.
all fighters accounted for.
proceed with the countdown.
all groups assume attack coordinates.
don't worry, my friends are down there.
they'll have that shield down on time.
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.
all craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.
it's only a few guards.
this shouldn't be too much trouble.
well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.
then we'll do it real quiet-like.
i'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.
there goes our surprise attack.
not bad for a little furball.
there's only one left.
we'll take care of this.
i have decided that we shall stay here.
i have been expecting you.
you no longer need those.
i'm looking forward to completing your training.
in time you will call me master.
you won't convert me as you did my father.
oh, no, my young jedi.
you will find that it is you who are mistaken.
about a great many things.
ah, yes, a jedi's weapon.
much like your father's.
by now you must know your father can never be turned from the dark side.
so will it be with you.
soon i'll be dead.
and you with me.
perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your rebel fleet.
i assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.
your overconfidence is your weakness.
your faith in your friends is yours.
it is pointless to resist, my son.
everything that has transpired has done so according to my design.
your friends up there on the sanctuary moon.
are walking into a trap.
as is your rebel fleet!
it was i who allowed the alliance to know the location of the shield generator.
it is quite safe from your pitiful little band.
an entire legion of my best troops awaits them.
i'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when your friends arrive.
the fleet will be here any moment.
come on, come on!
artoo, stay with me.
all wings report in.
red leader standing by.
gray leader standing by.
green leader standing by.
lock s-foils in attack positions.
may the force be with us.
we've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up or down.
well, how could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.
break off the attack!
the shield is still up.
i get no reading.
all craft pull up!
green group, stick close to holding sector mv-7.
admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.
there's too many of them!
accelerate to attack speed!
draw their fire away from the cruisers.
from here you will witness the final destruction of the alliance, and the end of your insignificant rebellion.
you want this, don't you?
the hate is swelling in you now.
take your jedi weapon.
strike me down with it.
give in to your anger.
with each passing moment, you make yourself more my servant.
it is your destiny.
you, like your father, are now mine!
all right, move it!
i said move it!
i say, over there!
were you looking for me?
bring those two down here!
well, they're on their way.
artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?
artoo, where are you?
we need you at the bunker right away.
what do you mean, you're going.
but-- but going where, artoo?
oh, this is no time for heroics.
red three, red two, pull in!
three of them coming in, twenty degrees!
cut to the left!
i'll take the leader!
they're heading for the medical frigate.
only the fighters are attacking.
i wonder what those star destroyers are waiting for.
we're in attack position now, sir.
we're not going to attack?
i have my orders from the emperor himself.
he has something special planned for them.
we only need to keep them from escaping.
as you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed.
now witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle station.
fire at will, commander.
that blast came from the death star!
home one, this is gold leader.
all craft prepare to retreat.
you won't get another chance at this, admiral.
we have no choice, general calrissian.
our cruisers can't repel firepower of that magnitude.
han will have that shield down.
we've got to give him more time.
artoo, why did you have to be so brave?
well, i suppose i could hotwire this thing.
move as close as you can and engage those star destroyers at point- blank range.
at that close range, we won't last long against those star destroyers.
we'll last longer then we will against that death star.
and we might just take a few of them with us.
your fleet has lost.
and your friends on the endor moon will not survive.
there is no escape, my young apprentice.
the alliance will die.
as will your friends.
i can feel your anger.
strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark side will be complete.
get him off of there!
i think i got it.
oh, princess leia, are you all right?
i got an idea.
use your aggressive feelings, boy!
let the hate flow through you.
obi-wan has taught you well.
i will not fight you, father.
you are unwise to lower your defenses.
your thoughts betray you, father.
i feel the good in you.
there is no conflict.
you couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and i don't believe you'll destroy me now.
you underestimate the power of the dark side.
if you will not fight, then you will meet your destiny.
i'm on it, gold leader.
good shot, red two.
come on, han, old buddy.
don't let me down.
the rebels have been routed.
they're fleeing into the woods.
we need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.
send three squads to help.
open the back door.
throw me another charge.
you cannot hide forever, luke.
i will not fight you.
give yourself to the dark side.
it is the only way you can save your friends.
yes, your thoughts betray you.
your feelings for them are strong.
you have a twin sister.
your feelings have now betrayed her, too.
obi-wan was wise to hide her from me.
now his failure is complete.
if you will not turn to the dark side, then perhaps she will.
your hate has made you powerful.
now, fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side!
i'll never turn to the dark side.
you've failed, your highness.
i am a jedi, like my father before me.
the shield is down!
commence attack on the death star's main reactor.
we're on our way.
red group, gold group, all fighters follow me.
told you they'd do it!
if you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.
only now, at the end, do you understand.
your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side.
you have paid the price for your lack of vision.
now lock onto the strongest power source.
it should be the power generator.
we could run out of space real fast.
split up and head back to the surface.
see if you can get a few of those tie fighters to follow you.
that was too close.
we've got to give those fighters more time.
concentrate all fire on that super star destroyer.
sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.
intensify the forward batteries.
i don't want anything to get through.
luke, help me take this mask off.
nothing can stop that now.
let me look on you with my own eyes.
you're coming with me.
i can't leave you here.
i've got to save you.
you already have, luke.
you were right about me.
i won't leave you.
go for the power regulator on the north tower.
i'm already on my way out.
move the fleet away from the death star.
wedge, i don't think we're going to make it.
just follow me gold leader.
i promised to return his ship without a scratch.
i sure hope that old pirate forgives me.